This repository includes scripts used in simulations or plotting in the Recombination_MRCA project, along with a copy of the used simulation result

averageFraction.nb is for simulating the probability for two separeted segments to have an overlapping segment and then comparing that to predictions.  The simulated result used in the report is copied in an input cell (so DO NOT run that cell if you want to run the simulation yourself).

simulation.py is for simulating coalescence using the msprime package.  The parameters are set in the first few blocks of code before the function definitions.  Running this script will then create a subdirectory named as "NumberOfTrialsForEachCondition_NumberOfBinsForEachConditionSHistogram" (numbers in scientific notation) in the current subdirectory, and each condition's histogram will be saved in a txt file in NumberOfTrialsForEachCondition_NumberOfBinsForEachConditionSHistogram, named as "Rho_SequenceLength_PopulationSize".  The parameters of the simulation will also be saved in NumberOfTrialsForEachCondition_NumberOfBinsForEachConditionSHistogram.

"9.0e+04_2.0e+02" is the folder name of the simulation used in the report.  The txt files in the folder are zipped in 9.0e+04_2.0e+02/simulation_results.zip.  9.0e+04_2.0e+02/comparison.nb is for comparing the 3 predictions to the simulation and generating figures.  To generate the figures in the report, unzip simulation_results.zip and run the corresponding cells (and the prerequisite cells) in comparison.nb.  If you want to run the simulation yourself and generate figures from there, after the simulation is completed, move comparison.nb under your NumberOfTrialsForEachCondition_NumberOfBinsForEachConditionSHistogram and run the corresponding cells.
